[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on Cosmic Disclosure,
we're with Richard Doty, a
retired Special Agent who
served in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with
UFO-ET-related intelligence.
Today, we are discussing
Operation Tan Cotton.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>>RICHARD DOTY: Good
to be here, Emery.
>>EMERY: All right, fill us in.
What is Operation Tan Cotton?
>>DOTY: Wow, this is
a sensational story
that comes right out of
the annals of the Central
Intelligence Agency.
Classified history.
It's told to us by
a CIA case officer
who spent 35 years with the
Central Intelligence Agency.
He actually spent time in
Bulgaria, where this originated.
They go back, to start
the story in 1953.
Something crashed
near a farmer's field
in Northwestern Bulgaria,
right near the Romanian
and Yugoslavian border.
It was in a remote area.
The farmer saw this thing crash.
And a few days
after, he went out
to try to find
exactly what it was.
I think it might have been
a meteorite or a meteor.
Now, this is 1953 time frame,
Bulgaria was, remember,
a communist country.
The farmer, he worked
at a collective farming
but the Bulgarian
government allowed
them to have a plot of land.
He lived in this
remote farmhouse
with his wife and his child.
And he'd lived there
for a number of years.
He drove out with a tractor
and found this object that
was embedded into the soil.
It wasn't very big.
It was about three meters
in circumference conference
and about a meter
and a half wide.
He had no idea what it was.
Back in 1953, UFOs
in foreign countries
probably was unheard of.
So he then told another person
that he knew about this object.
This other person came over and
looked at the object and said,
it's a meteor.
It came from space.
But it was a gray-colored
saucer-shaped object.
There was no ports or
portals or doors or windows.
And there was no way to get
into it that they could find.
In fact, they
actually tried to use
sledgehammers to break it open.
And nothing opened it.
So eventually-- and
this is where there are
some redactions to the story.
Eventually, a deep cover
CIA operative operating
inside Bulgaria learned of this.
And he was able to go to
the scene, meet the farmer.
And the farmer showed
him where this thing was.
Now, this operative went back
and told his case officer,
eventually contacted the
case officer, in Sofia,
at the capital of
Bulgaria, US embassy.
Now, the CIA knows about this.
The CIA was curious--
says, what is this?
And there was a photograph
taken by the agent
and gave it to the case officer.
And they looked at it.
And then they realized--
and this is 1953.
They realized, wow,
that looks like one
of these flying saucers that are
being seen in the United States.
So now, they want
to form a plan.
OK, they want to go
there and examine it.
So now, even though
Bulgaria was somewhat open,
it was still a
communist country.
And the KGB had
a major influence
on the internal security
system of Bulgaria.
So it wasn't as easy as just
to drive an embassy vehicle up
there and look at it.
So it had to do
everything covertly.
So they did this.
They actually put together
a three-person team
to go up there, make
contact with the farmer.
Now, this is several
hundred kilometers away
from the capital of Sofia.
So they get there.
And they examined it.
And the consensus of the people
that we're examining it--
one was a scientist--
is that this thing
didn't come from Earth.
And so they go back.
And they send all the
information up to Washington,
saying, it probably is one
of these flying saucers.
Now, what do we do?
What are we going to do with it?
We can't examine it
in a farmer's field.
It seems pretty heavy.
How do we get it out of there?
And so the wheels of the CIA
and the US State Department
started turning.
And they developed this plan.
It was quite an elaborate plan.
The only way to actually get
something out of that area
was to transport it
from the crash site
to the Danube River north of
there, a couple of kilometers
north of the farmers field.
The Danube River ran all the way
from Germany through Austria,
all the way down to the
communist countries,
and all the way out through
Romania to the Black Sea.
So now, they had to figure out,
how are they going to do this?
The plan calls for a barge
to come down the river.
The CIA would have
to figure out how
to get that craft over to the
barge, put it on the barge,
not only put it on the barge
but hide it on the barge
that would then go out to the
Black Sea and, from that point,
onto a Turkish ship
that could take it
to one of the ports in Northern
Turkey and then eventually try
to get back to
the United States.
>>EMERY: That's a
lot of logistics.
>>DOTY: A lot of logistics.
But what they did was
there were free access
for certain countries to
move freight and commodities
on the Danube.
One of them was Austria.
They've licensed to
be on the Danube.
And although custom
personnel would
check to Yugoslavia and
to communist countries,
but they normally could
operate in the open
without any problems.
So they had to
then figure out how
to get it the several
kilometers up to the river.
And then everything had
to be coordinated by time
because they couldn't leave
this thing out in the open.
So they had to do everything
in split second timing groups.
The case officer was
explaining this to us,
said they were on the
clock from the beginning
when that barge
first leaves Austria
and when it got to the border.
And I remember.
This is up near the border
of Romania and Yugoslavia.
So he got customs,
Yugoslavia customs,
which was a communist country.
Tito was the ruler of
Yugoslavia and Romania,
which is also a communist
country at that time.
So they did.
They planned this
perfectly and timing wise.
They were able to get the
farmer's tractor and a trailer,
placed this thing
on the trailer,
and then drove it all the
way up to the shoreline,
up to the Danube River.
Now, this thing is
like nine feet by--
>>EMERY: Small.
>>DOTY: It's not very big.
They realized it weighed 1,800
pounds or something to that
effect.
So they had to bring
other people in.
And they didn't want to tip off
Bulgarian intelligence service,
which was controlled by the KGB.
And they were amateurs.
They were pretty
watchful, especially
the American embassy
and American personnel
in the embassy.
Although not every single
American was surveilled,
the suspected CIA
personnel were.
And there weren't that many
in the embassy at the time.
There was a handful
of CIA personnel.
Bulgaria wasn't that important
country at that time.
Anyways, they moved a
lot of people up there.
And they had to do it
over a period of time
so there wouldn't be any
suspicion of what we were doing.
But finally, they got the barge.
The first barge that came down.
They realized it
wasn't big enough.
They had to let that barge go.
They had to coordinate with
the people in Australia
to send a bigger barge down.
Eventually, over a
period of several weeks,
they got the right
barge down there.
But during this time frame,
the local police, the militia,
became suspicious of what
was occurring up here.
So now, what do we do?
What does CIA do?
Well, fortunately, they
were able to co-opt
a couple policemen, Bulgarian
policemen, and paid them off.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: And the bigger
barge came down.
They were able to load this
thing under a section of it, put
other commodities
in it on the outside
to prevent any customs
officials because it
had to go-- even though
it was in Bulgaria,
it had to go into Romania.
And Romanian customs is
going to examine this thing.
So they're going to try to
figure out, well, what is this?
And so it worked.
They were able to put
the saucer on the barge,
hide it under commodities,
and move it forward.
Now, the people running this
barge had to be co-opted.
And they were Austrians.
There were a Bulgarian
that was also
on that barge who had to
be co-opted or brought
under our control.
And so they did all this.
Everything went great until
they got up to constant port--
that was what it was called--
of Romania to move it out
to the Turkish ship
that we had coordinated
with the Turkish government
to take up there.
Actually, the Turkish ship
contained US Navy personnel
operating that ship.
Every one of those
US Navy personnel
were either Native Turkish
or spoke Turkish fluently.
But the ship was off the
shore, not close to the port.
When they got up there, Romanian
customs became suspicious.
This weighed too
much with whatever
the commodities were, the
groceries or whatever items.
It weighed too much.
And it got up there late.
So the Romanian customs
officials told them, listen,
you can't leave until
the next morning
because we have to weigh you.
And we can't bring a weight
in or whatever system
they use to weigh.
So they assigned this
Romanian police officer
to watch this barge
so it wouldn't move
right until the next morning.
Well, now, see, I figured,
what are we going to do?
We can't wait till morning.
Because once they wait, it's
going to realize these farm
products don't weigh as
much as the 1,900 pounds.
So they decided to act.
So they took off.
They drugged the
Romanian police officer.
They took him with them.
And out to the
Turkish ship, they
managed to transfer the saucer
onto this Turkish vessel
and left the Romanian
police officer
on that barge,
positioned the barge
so it would go
back towards port--
they didn't want to harm him.
And then the Turkish ship would
then start heading towards--
well, in the meantime, a
Romanian Coast Guard boat
sees what's happening but
doesn't suspect anything
right away.
They just see what's happening.
And this is 3 o'clock
in the morning.
And they become
suspicious, finally.
And the commander of the
remaining Coast Guard boat
says, let's go check
that Turkish boat out.
What did that barge do?
And so forth.
So anyway, the
Romanian Coast Guard
drives to the Turkish ship,
demands that it stops.
>>EMERY: Are they
armed down there?
Or are they like this?
The CIA or--
>>DOTY: The CIA are armed.
The Navy personnel are armed.
But they didn't want
a confrontation.
They didn't want to have
an armed confrontation.
A Romanian Coast
Guard man got on board
and said, what are
you guys doing?
And the story is we are
unloading that barge.
We were supposed
to do it earlier.
But your customs people
wouldn't allow it.
And they finally let us do it.
And the Coast Guard people
said the port closes
at a certain time period.
I don't remember what
that time period was.
And nothing can
occur until daylight.
So why are you leaving?
He said, because we
have our equipment.
It took a long time.
But they eventually talked the
Romanian Coast Guard person,
the commander,
into understanding
what their position was.
So Romanian Coast Guard
commander said, OK, you can go.
>>EMERY: Well, they
avoided that confrontation.
Was there any other
confrontations?
>>DOTY: Well, actually, they
didn't avoid this confrontation.
>>EMERY: Oh, they didn't?
>>DOTY: The Coast Guard, the
Romanian Coast Guard, boat,
left.
But as it radioed to
shore, they were told,
no, stop that ship because
it illegally entered
Romanian territorial waters.
Well, the Turkish ship
was monitoring the radio
transmission and then sped up.
So there was some form
of a confrontation
where the remaining Coast Guard
ship fired on the Turkish ship.
And the Turkish ship never
fired back, just kept going,
and basically outraced that
small Romanian Coast Guard boat.
When the boat got in
international waters,
because in the Black Sea,
there was international waters,
the Romanian boat
ceased to follow.
And the Turkish ship
then docked in Sinop.
And they unloaded the cargo.
>>EMERY: So where did
they deliver this craft?
And where did it go from there?
>>DOTY: A port called
Sinop in Northern Turkey.
So they had to drive
about two hours to Ankara.
They had to unload it,
take it to an airfield,
which was an Air Force base,
the American Air Force base.
A C-124 cargo plane--
back in those days,
these things are huge.
They could carry
virtually anything.
They were going to load it
on that C-124 cargo plane
and fly it to West Germany
and then unload it.
>>EMERY: So from Germany, I'm
assuming they went directly
to the United States.
Then what happened?
>>DOTY: It was actually put on
another transport plane, a C-97,
which was a kind of a
newer transport plane
in the '50s, and flown to
Wright-Patterson Air Force base.
Remember, Area 51
didn't exist in 1953.
So they didn't have
any other place
to examine these things except
for Wright-Patterson Air Force
base, where the Air
Technical Center was located.
And they were actually part of
this whole operation, the Air
Force Technical
Operations Center.
So once the plane
got there, the saucer
was transported to a hangar.
And guess what number
that hangar was.
That was Hangar 13,
literally Hangar 13.
It was placed inside that
hangar, heavily guarded
by Air Force air policemen.
And now, technical
personnel had to come in
and try to open this thing.
Now, that wasn't an easy task.
It took literally weeks
to open this thing up.
And when they finally
determined a way
of breaking the seal or
whatever technique they use,
because that wasn't ever told
to us, they did open it up.
And when they got inside,
they found these 5-foot tall
entities.
They were dead.
But they had not
deteriorated at all.
Their bodies were in
pristine condition.
But as they started
looking around the craft,
they noticed everything in
that craft was in English.
The control panels
were in English.
The wall charts were in English.
There were these big
screens with English titles.
Dumbfounded-- the scientists
were actually dumbfounded.
We found a civilization
that used our language.
>>EMERY: What did
the ETs look like?
What species were these?
>>DOTY: They were humans.
>>EMERY: They were humans.
>>DOTY: Here's the thing.
In December 1953, when
they opened the craft,
the bodies were taken out and
put in some type of deep freeze
or suspended animation
or whatever they used.
I'm not sure how that worked.
But jump ahead, we didn't
have technology in 1953
to fully understand this.
Jump ahead to 2002,
the scientists
now realized that this craft
was probably made on Earth.
And what we're looking
at was time travelers--
>>EMERY: Right, from the future.
>>DOTY: They came back from
the future in a smaller craft.
And somehow, our
bodies were smaller.
They crashed into Bulgaria.
And for all those years
that we couldn't figure out
why this craft was
all in English inside,
we determined that it was
probably these creatures
were actually humans.
And they were time travelers.
>>EMERY: Are you saying they're
descendants of you and I?
>>DOTY: They were
descendants of you and I.
>>EMERY: So how did they
come to this conclusion?
>>DOTY: Well, number
one, the materials
that the craft was made
of has some remnants
of what we have on Earth.
Now, they suspected
this is maybe
thousand years in the future.
And they came back in time.
And so we probably
developed this material
in order to fly in space,
space travel or time travel.
And so they put all this
together, two and two together.
And they come to the conclusion
it's probably time travel.
What other possibility
could there be for these--
of course, they're dead.
So we can't talk to them.
But the material in their
suits, they looked like humans.
They had human organs.
And the craft's English
language and the materials--
probably made on Earth
but in the future.
And they were perfectly
preserved inside this thing,
which is kind of odd to me.
But I guess, without
any outside air,
you might know more
about it than I do,
that maybe these things could
be preserved inside this craft.
And remember, if they came from
the future here to the past,
maybe they have some
system inside that craft
to preserve them just in case
this might have happened.
>>EMERY: It's possible
they're not even dead too.
I mean, they could be in a
state of animation of some sort.
When they travel, they
do that sometimes.
>>DOTY: The information
I got was they were dead.
And they were
probably buried later.
I don't know that.
But the most interesting
part of this whole story,
as I told you earlier,
is DNA testing.
>>EMERY: Yes.
>>DOTY: In 2002 and into
2003, we had DNA testing.
So one of the things that we
decided to do, the scientists,
is take their DNA.
And there are plenty of places
they could get the DNA from.
They get the DNA.
And they found that the DNA
is almost identical to humans,
except there were
additional strands.
Now, the genetic scientists
figure that if we can live to be
in another 1,000 or 2,000
or 5,000 or 100,000 years,
our DNA will probably change.
>>EMERY: Yes.
>>DOTY: And that's why
they come to the conclusion
that these are human
beings but from the future.
>>EMERY: Was there
any other technology
that we learned about
from them that was
on the craft or
the craft itself?
>>DOTY: Of course.
Everything inside that craft was
such advanced technology for us
that we're studying it today.
20 some years later, we're
still examining this spacecraft,
probably out at Area 51,
taking everything apart,
try to look at, it and analyze
how our technology has changed
or will change into the future
because now we have something
from the future that's here.
And now, we can look at it.
And that really will
help our scientists
determine how our technology
will advance into the future.
>>EMERY: Well, I think
this is a very important
find for the military and the
Americans and corporations
because it's in English.
It's like an instruction book.
What do you think about this?
What came out of this?
And where is it going?
>>DOTY: Well, we have the
ability to look at what
our civilization will make in
the future, whether it's 10,000,
100,000 years.
We can look at it
and say, this is how
our technology will develop.
And I think we'll learn a
lot and probably already have
learned a lot by studying
this particular craft that
came from the future.
>>EMERY: Well, of
course, we did it.
>>DOTY: We did it.
>>EMERY: Well, that
gives me a lot of hope.
And I'm sure it's going to give
the viewers a lot of hope moving
forward to know that
we are creating this.
Thank you so much, Rick,
for being on the show.
>>DOTY: Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith.
And this is Cosmic Disclosure.
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]